<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="apigw_apirequestrouting_apisecurity" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Security check<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>The <ph conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> runs the API security
action to perform the security checks that are required by the matched API on the request. </shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>The <ph conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> performs API key security check in
the client identification phase. In the security check phase, the <ph
conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> checks the request against the basic
authentication and OAuth security requirements in the following procedure:<ol>
<li>The action determines the security requirements to enforce:<ul>
<li>If the target operation has its security requirements defined in the operation level, the action
enforces the operation-level security requirements.</li>
<li>If the target operation does not have operation-level security requirements, the action enforces
the API-level security requirements.</li>
<li>If the target operation does not have any security requirement in the API or operation level,
the action allows the access to the API without security check. The processing proceeds to the
context population phase.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>The action examines the credentials that are carried in the request against the security
requirements to enforce: <ul>
<li>If the credentials fulfill at least one of the security requirements, the action allows the
access to the API.</li>
<li>If the credentials do not fulfill any of the security requirements, the request is rejected.
</li>
</ul></li>
</ol> For information about how the supported types of security definition work to security an API,
see the API security topic.</p>
</conbody>
<related-links>
<link href="apigw_securitydefinitions.dita"/>
</related-links>
</concept>
