<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="apigw_configuringldapregistry" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating an API LDAP registry<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>Create an API LDAP registry to define the LDAP server to authenticate incoming API
requests.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>LDAP registries can be used to authenticate users to APIs. You must provide the following data.<ul>
<li>The LDAP host name and port</li>
<li>Optionally, the SSL client profile to secure connections</li>
<li>The LDAP version, DN, and password alias of the LDAP administrator password for the bind
operation</li>
<li>The LDAP search parameters to retrieve user information from the LDAP server</li>
<li>The time to wait for a response from the LDAP server</li>
</ul></p>
</context>
<steps>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/search_api">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>From the search results, select <uicontrol>API LDAP Registry</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_basicproperties">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Enter the host name or IP address of the LDAP server.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Enter the listening port on the LDAP server.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Select the SSL client profile to secure connections between the <ph
conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> and the LDAP server.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Select the LDAP version to use for the bind operation.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Enter the distinguished name (DN) to bind to the LDAP server for the LDAP search.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Select the password alias of the LDAP administrator password to bind to the LDAP server for the
LDAP search.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Specify the LDAP search parameters to perform an LDAP search to retrieve the user DN.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Enter the time to wait for a response from the LDAP server before the <ph
conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> closes the LDAP connection.</cmd>
<info>A value of 0 indicates that the connection never times out.</info>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_apply">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_saveconfig">
<cmd/>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>Associate the LDAP registry to a basic authentication security definition.</postreq>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="ldapsearchparameters.html" format="html" scope="peer">
<linktext>Creating LDAP search parameters</linktext>
</link>
<link href="apigw_securitydefinitions_basicauth.dita"/>
</related-links>
</task>
