<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="apigw_securitydefinitions" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>API security<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc><ph conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> allows you to secure your APIs through API
key, basic authentication, and OAuth security schemes.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>You can declare the available security schemes to be used in your APIs by defining security
definitions. A security definition provides details for each scheme. The <ph
conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> supports the following types of security definition:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>API key</dt>
<dd>An API key security definition defines the credentials that an API requester must provide to the
<ph conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> to identify itself when the requester calls the API
operations.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Basic authentication</dt>
<dd>A basic authentication security definition defines an authentication URL or an LDAP user
registry to authenticate accesses to APIs. When you use basic authentication, the API client must
provide a valid user name and password in the request.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>OAuth</dt>
<dd>An OAuth security definition defines settings that control the access to APIs through the OAuth
standard. By using an OAuth token, users can grant the API requester to access their information
that is stored with another service provider without sharing their personal credentials.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
<p>A security definition is not enforced unless you add the security definition as a security
requirement at the API-level or the operation-level.<ul>
<li>API-level security requirements are enforced on the API as a whole. By default, the security
requirements are applied to all operations in the API. </li>
<li>Operation-level security requirements override the API-level security requirements.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>An API or operation can have one or more security requirements. When multiple security
requirements are configured, the API request needs to pass only the security checks that are defined
by one of these system requirements. A security requirement comprises one or more security
definitions. When multiple security definitions are specified, the API request must pass all
security checks that are defined by the security definitions.</p>
<p>The following high-level procedure shows how to secure your APIs and operations:<ol>
<li>Define security definitions that are available to be used in your APIs.</li>
<li>For each API to secure, configure the security requirements at the API-level.</li>
<li>For operations that have operation-specific security requirements instead of inheriting the
API-level security requirements, configure the security requirements at the operation-level.</li>
</ol></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
