<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="apigw_securitydefinitions_basicauth" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating a basic authentication security definition<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>Create a basic authentication security definition to specify the authentication URL or
LDAP user registry to authenticate accesses to APIs. </shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>You can authenticate users with an authentication URL or an LDAP registry.<ul>
<li>When you use an authentication URL, the <ph conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> sends the
credentials that it collects from the API client to the endpoint that is specified in the URL for
validation. When the user is authenticated, the authentication URL returns an HTTP <codeph>200
OK</codeph> response status code. All other HTTP response status codes result in an authentication
failure and the access is denied.</li>
<li>When you use an LDAP registry, the <ph conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/apigw"/> uses an LDAP
server to authenticate the API client.</li>
</ul></p>
</context>
<steps>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/search_api">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>From the search results, select <uicontrol>API Security Basic Authentication</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_basicproperties">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Select how to authenticate users.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>When you authenticate users with an authentication URL, complete the following steps.</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep>
<cmd>Enter the URL to validate client credentials.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep importance="optional">
<cmd>Select the SSL client profile to secure connections between the <ph
conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/idag2nd"/> and the authentication server.</cmd>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>When you authenticate users with an LDAP registry, select the name of the API LDAP Registry
configuration to authenticate the API request.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_apply">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_saveconfig">
<cmd/>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>To enforce the security scheme, add the basic authentication security definition into a
security requirement of an API or operation.</postreq>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="apigw_configuringldapregistry.dita"/>
<link href="apigw_configuringsecurityrequirements.dita"/>
</related-links>
</task>
