<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="apigw_securitydefinitions_apikey" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating an API key security definition<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>Create an API key security definition to define the credentials that an API client must
provide to the <ph conref="apigw_conref.dita#common/idag2nd"/> to access an
API.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>The client ID type of security definition requires that an client must show the expected client
ID to access the API.</p>
<p>The client secret type of security definition requires that an client must show the expected
client secret to access the API.</p>
<p>You can require the API client to provide only the client ID, or both the client ID and client
secret. When you require the API client to provide both the client ID and client secret, you must
create two separate API key security definitions, one of type ID and the other of type Secret.</p>
<p>You can require the credentials to be sent in the request header or as query parameters. An API
call fails if the required credentials are not included in the expected location. <note>Regardless
of whether the client credentials are sent in the request header or as query parameters, you must
specify the same location for the client ID and client secret.</note></p>
</context>
<steps>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/search_api">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>From the search results, select <uicontrol>API Security API Key</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_basicproperties">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Select the location of the client credential.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Select the type of the client credential.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Enter the name of the API key.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_apply">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_saveconfig">
<cmd/>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>To enforce the security scheme, add the API key security definition into a security
requirement of an API or operation.</postreq>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="apigw_configuringsecurityrequirements.dita"/>
</related-links>
</task>
