<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="apigw_configuringapioperation" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating an API operation<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>An API operation defines the HTTP method to execute against the resources. You can use
GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, HEAD, PATCH, and OPTIONS operations for the API.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>The following settings in the API operation override the corresponding setting in the
configurations that reference the API operation.<ul>
<li>The parameters that you specify here override the same parameters in the API path.</li>
<li>The security requirements that you specify here override the API-level security
requirements.</li>
<li>You can set whether to remove the API-level consume declaration that is defined for the API. By
default, the top-level consume declaration is applied to the operation. When removed, the operation
can always be performed regardless of the content type.</li>
<li>You can set whether to remove the API-level security declaration that is defined for the API. By
default, the top-level security declaration is applied to the operation. When removed, an API client
can call the API operation without passing any security check.</li>
</ul></p>
</context>
<steps>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/search_api">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>From the search results, select <uicontrol>API Operation</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_basicproperties">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Specify the HTTP method to perform against the API.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Specify the ID of the operation.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Specify the parameters that are applicable for the operation.</cmd>
<substeps conref="apigw_configuringapipath.dita#apigw_configuringapipath/parameter">
<substep>
<cmd/>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Repeat the previous step to add another parameter.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Set whether to remove the API-level consume declaration for the operation.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>When the top-level consume declaration is not removed, specify the MIME types that the API
operation can consume.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Set whether to remove the API-level security declaration for the operation.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>When the top-level security declaration is not removed, specify the security requirements to
enforce for the operation.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_apply">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_saveconfig">
<cmd/>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="apigw_securitydefinitions.dita"/>
</related-links>
</task>
