<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="apigw_configuringapiproperty" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding a custom API property entry<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>Based on the purpose of your APIs, you can add custom API properties. The information
instructs how to add a custom API property entry.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>The value of an API property is collection-specific. A custom property entry specifies one
property and the property value for one collection. To add another custom property, or to specify a
different property value for another collection, add another entry.</p>
<p>To add a custom API property, provide the following information:<ul>
<li>The name of the property. The assembly actions reference the property through the property
name.</li>
<li>The name of the API collection that the property value applies to. When the property value
applies to all collections, use the default value asterisk (<codeph>*</codeph>).</li>
<li>The value of the property for the specified collection.</li>
</ul></p>
</context>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>From the API definition configuration, locate the <uicontrol>Custom properties</uicontrol>
setting.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add" id="add">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Specify the property name.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Specify the collection name.</cmd>
</step>
<step id="value">
<cmd>Specify the value for the collection.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Repeat step <xref href="#apigw_configuringapiproperty/add" format="dita"/> - <xref
href="#apigw_configuringapiproperty/value" format="dita"/> to add another entry.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>After an API property is created, you can access or manipulate the property value by
referencing the property in the assembly actions.</postreq>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="apigw_referencingapicontextvariable.dita"/>
</related-links>
</task>
