<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="apigw_configuringsecurityrequirements" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating a security requirement<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>An API security requirement defines the required security checks that an API request must
pass to call the API or operation.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>You specify a security requirement by selecting one or more security definitions. When multiple
security definitions are selected, the API request must pass all security checks that these security
definitions specify.</p>
<p>The following rules apply when you specify a security requirement:<ul>
<li>If you want to authenticate the API requester through API keys and require the requester to show
both client ID and client secret, you must apply two API key security definitions, one authenticates
the client ID and the other authenticates the client secret.</li>
<li>You cannot apply more than one basic authentication security definitions to an API.</li>
<li>You cannot apply more than one OAuth security definitions to an API.</li>
</ul></p>
</context>
<steps>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/search_api">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>From the search results, select <uicontrol>API Security Requirement</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_basicproperties">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Select the security definition to enforce.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_apply">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_saveconfig">
<cmd/>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq>Apply the security requirement:<ul>
<li>To apply the requirement to all operations of an API, associate the security requirement to the
API definition configuration.</li>
<li>To apply the requirement to an API operation, associate the security requirement to the API
operation configuration.</li>
</ul></postreq>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="apigw_configuringapi.dita"/>
<link href="apigw_configuringapioperation.dita"/>
</related-links>
</task>
