<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="apigw_configuringapipath" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Creating an API path<ph rev="rev760"/></title>
<shortdesc>An API path defines the API operations that are available on a single path.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>Provide the following information when you configure an API path:<ul>
<li>The path, which is relative to the base path, where the operations are available.</li>
<li>The operations that are available on the path.</li>
<li>Optionally, the parameters that apply to all operations under this path. The parameters in the
API path can be overridden by the parameters that are specified at the operation level.</li>
</ul>
</p>
</context>
<steps>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/search_api">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>From the search results, select <uicontrol>API Path</uicontrol>.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_basicproperties">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Specify the path where the operations are served. </cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Specify the operations that are served in the path.</cmd>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Define a parameter that is applicable for all operations under this path.</cmd>
<substeps id="parameter">
<substep conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_add_substep">
<cmd/>
</substep>
<substep>
<cmd>Enter the parameter name.</cmd>
<info>Parameter names are case-sensitive.</info>
</substep>
<substep>
<cmd>Set whether the parameter is required for a call to be valid.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep id="paratype">
<cmd>Select the type of the parameter.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep>
<cmd>Select the location of the parameter.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep>
<cmd>Depending on the location of the parameter, specify the schema or the extending format:</cmd>
<info>
<ul>
<li>If the parameter is located in <codeph>body</codeph>, specify the schema that defines the type
that is used for the body parameter.</li>
<li>If the parameter is not located in <codeph>body</codeph>, specify the extending format for the
parameter type that you specified in <xref href="#apigw_configuringapipath/paratype" format="dita"
/>.</li>
</ul>
</info>
</substep>
<substep conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_save_substep">
<cmd/>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step importance="optional">
<cmd>Repeat the previous step to define another parameter.</cmd>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_apply">
<cmd/>
</step>
<step conref="apigw_conref.dita#commonsteps/config_saveconfig">
<cmd/>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link href="apigw_configuringapioperation.dita"/>
</related-links>
</task>
