<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept id="graphical-user-interfaces" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Graphical interfaces</title>
<shortdesc>The <ph conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/idag2nd"></ph> provides
two graphical interfaces: <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/webGUI_basic"></ph> and <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/webGUI_advanced"></ph>.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>You can use both graphical interfaces to manage the <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/idag2nd"/>, develop and troubleshoot services, and
monitor status. However, the following tasks are available from only the <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/webGUI_advanced"/>:<ul>
<li>Creating and managing service patterns</li>
<li audience="tenant" rev="rev760">Creating tenants.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Independent of the graphical interface, both manage the configuration
of objects. An object can reference another object that can, in turn,
reference another object. For example, a service configuration references
an XML manager that references a user agent. To meet your business-processing
criteria and security requirements, the <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/idag2nd"></ph> provides
flexibility to manage the base configurations and their referenced
configurations.</p>
<p>Objects that you can configure on the <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/idag2nd"></ph> range
from simple to complex. An object is any entity that you configure
on the <ph conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/idag2nd"></ph>.
All objects provide an object view, or a generic configuration. However,
many <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="DataPower">DataPower</tm> services
provide an object view and a service view. For a <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/mpgw"></ph>, <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/wsp"></ph>, and <ph
conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/webseal"></ph>, you can
use patterns.</p>
<ul>
<li>The object view allows expert-level developers to build specific,
complex, and detailed objects.</li>
<li>The service view allows less-than-expert level developers to build
basic objects. The service view is a wizard that steps the developer
through the creation of an object. The service view might not include
all configuration properties. The service view is available in only
the <ph conref="../conrefs/conref_common.dita#common/webGUI_basic"></ph>.</li>
<li>Patterns allow developers to create services from base service
configurations. Patterns do not include all configuration properties
to the pattern developer or the pattern deployer.</li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
